Upgrade from 0.13.1 to 0.14.0
=============================

Updating the Tails Workstations
-------------------------------
We recommend that you update all Tails drives to version 3.15, which was
`released <https://tails.boum.org/news/version_3.15/index.en.html>`_
on July 9, 2019. Follow the Tails graphical prompts on your workstations to
perform this upgrade.

On a subsequent boot of your SecureDrop *Journalist* and *Admin Workstations*,
the *SecureDrop Workstation Updater* will alert you to workstation updates.
Due to a `recent surge in attacks against GPG keyservers <https://gist.github.com/rjhansen/67ab921ffb4084c865b3618d6955275f>`_,
we recommend against using the graphical updater for this release.

We have uploaded the SecureDrop Release Key to the new *keys.openpgp.org*
keyserver, which includes important mitigations against this type of attack. In
the process, we have also updated the expiration date of the release key (the
fingerprint remains the same).

To update your workstations using the new keyserver, run the following
commands: ::

    cd ~/Persistent/securedrop
    git fetch --tags
    gpg --keyserver hkps://keys.openpgp.org --recv-key \
     "2224 5C81 E3BA EB41 38B3 6061 310F 5612 00F4 AD77"
    git tag -v 0.14.0

The output should include the following two lines: ::

    gpg:                using RSA key 22245C81E3BAEB4138B36061310F561200F4AD77
    gpg: Good signature from "SecureDrop Release Signing Key"

Please verify that each character of the fingerprint above matches what
on the screen of your workstation. If it does, you can check out the
new release: ::

    git checkout 0.14.0

.. important:: If you do see the warning "refname '0.14.0' is ambiguous" in the
  output, we recommend that you contact us immediately at securedrop@freedom.press
  (`GPG encrypted <https://securedrop.org/sites/default/files/fpf-email.asc>`__).

Finally, run the following commands: ::

  ./securedrop-admin setup
  ./securedrop-admin tailsconfig

Once you have updated the workstation, the graphical updater will always use the
new *keys.openpgp.org* keyserver.

Backing Up the Tails Workstations
---------------------------------
USB flash drives degrade over time and vary in quality. To ensure continued
access to SecureDrop by administrators and journalists, we recommend backing up
the Tails Workstations on the occasion of a new SecureDrop release, after you
have completed the upgrade process for each drive.

You can use a single storage device for backups of multiple workstations. See
our :doc:`Workstation Backup Guide <../backup_workstations>` for more information.

Getting Support
---------------

Should you require further support with your SecureDrop installation, we are
happy to help!

- Community support is available at https://forum.securedrop.org
- If you are already a member of our support portal, please don't hesitate to
  open a ticket there. If you would like to request access, please contact us
  at securedrop@freedom.press
  (`GPG encrypted <https://securedrop.org/sites/default/files/fpf-email.asc>`__).
- The Freedom of the Press Foundation offers training and priority support
  services. See https://securedrop.org/priority-support/ for more information.
