Upgrade from 0.2.1 to 0.3.x
===========================

Since the changes between 0.2.1 and 0.3.x are substantial (including changing
the default operating system from Ubuntu 12 LTS to Ubuntu 14 LTS), it is
impossible to automatically migrate a 0.2.1 instance to 0.3.x.

Instead, the process of upgrading a 0.2.1 version involves:

#. Backing up the existing 0.2.1 instance's data
#. A clean install (including re-installing Ubuntu) of 0.3.x
#. Migrating the old instance data from the backup to the new instance.

Prerequisites
-------------

- A networked Admin tails workstation configured with the SecureDrop repo
  cloned to the ``Persistent`` directory.
- Physical/remote access to the app and monitor servers

Upgrade Procedure
-----------------

#. Verify the version of the latest stable release of SecureDrop.

   * If you have an up-to-date clone/pull of the SecureDrop git repository, you
     could find the most recent tagged version with ``git describe --abbrev=0``.
   * You can also check the "Current version" banner on the `SecureDrop
     website`_.

#. The upgrade steps in this document will work for each ``0.3.x`` SecureDrop
   version. Throughout the rest of this document, substitute ``0.3.x`` with the
   current release's version number.

#. Checkout and verify the current release on the Admin Workstation. ::

     cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/SecureDrop
     git pull
     git tag -v 0.3.x # Make sure you get a "Good signature"
     git checkout 0.3.x

#. Copy the 0.2.1 migration script to the app server using scp or physical
   media (usb). ::

     /home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop/migration_scripts/0.2.1/0.2.1_collect.py

#. On the app server, run ``0.2.1_collect.py`` as root and provide a name for
   the backup file (it will have a ``.tar.gz`` extension appended
   automatically). ::

     sudo ./0.2.1_collect.py sdbackup

#. Copy ``sdbackup.tar.gz`` to removable media and transfer it to the new
   instance's app server. If you are re-using the same hardware for your 0.3.x
   installation as you did for 0.2.1, make sure you copy this file to a
   external media before beginning the 0.3.x installation - otherwise you will
   lose your data!

#. Ensure that you've completed the installation process for the latest stable
   version of SecureDrop, and ensure that you've created at least one user on
   the Journalist Interface (with ``./manage.py add-admin``) before continuing.

#. Once you've successfully installed 0.3.x, copy ``sdbackup.tar.gz`` to any
   location on the 0.3.x app server. You will also need to copy the
   ``migration_scripts/0.2.1`` directory to the new app server. You can copy it
   from the git repository on the Admin Workstation and transfer it to the app
   server with a flash drive, or ``git clone`` the repo to your home directory
   on the app server.

#. ``cd`` into ``migration_scripts/0.2.1`` and run ``0.3_migrate.py`` as root,
   passing the path to the backup file from the 0.2.1 instance. ::

     sudo ./0.3_migrate.py sdbackup.tar.gz

The script will say "Done!" when it completes successfully. Otherwise, it will
print an error and a Python traceback. If you encounter such an error, please
send an encrypted email with the traceback attached to
securedrop@freedom.press.

Finally, test your new installation and make sure that everything was
successfully migrated.

.. _SecureDrop website: https://securedrop.org/

