Upgrade from 0.3.x to 0.3.5
============================

SecureDrop 0.3.5 updates how TLS certificates for the SMTP relay
used to send OSSEC notifications are handled. It also updates
the AppArmor profile for Apache to ensure the service starts
successfully.

The upgrade steps in this document will upgrade a 0.3.x (where x < 5)
SecureDrop instance to 0.3.5.

Important Changes
-----------------

OSSEC Postfix configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Postfix configuration on the Monitor Server previously used a hard-coded
fingerprint value, specified as ``smtp_relay_fingerprint`` in the ``prod-specific.yml`` file,
to verify the TLS certificate prior to sending mail. Some mail providers use load balancing
on the SMTP relay, which causes the fingerprint to change periodicially during normal use.
With a hard-coded fingerprint, this caused OSSEC alerts to be delayed, so the default
functionality is now to trust the system CAs on the Monitor Server.

In order to upgrade to the new verification functionality, admins update the 
``prod-specific.yml`` file and run a special git command designed to merge
site-specific changes in safely.


Allow log rotation for Apache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The AppArmor profile for Apache was aggressively preventing the service
from creating new log files, which prevented normal log rotation functionality.
The adjustments to the AppArmor profile not only restore the expected rotation,
but will also reduce false positives reported by OSSEC.

Prevent reboots during cron-apt upgrade
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The servers are set to reboot nightly, to ensure submissions are not retained
in memory. The timing of the reboot task was fuzzy, and it was possible that
a reboot would interrupt a running upgrade for cron-apt. The new logic
ensures that the reboot only takes place after cron-apt exits.

Blacklist additional kernel modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Newer versions of the Intel NUCs come with wifi and bluetooth hardware,
so the playbooks now disable the ``btusb`` and ``iwlmvm`` kernel modules,
in addition to ``bluetooth`` and ``iwlwifi``, which are still blacklisted.


Prerequisites
-------------

-  An Admin networked Tails workstation with persistence enabled and an
   Admin password set during boot.
   
-  A running SecureDrop instance of 0.3.x, where x is less than 5.

.. note:: If your organization uses an internal SMTP relay, you may
          wish to continue using fingerprint-style verification of the
          TLS certificate. You can therefore skip #3 below.

Upgrade Procedure
-----------------

The upgrade procedure can be performed entirely from the Admin
Workstation. Start by booting the Admin Tails USB on the Admin 
Workstation. Make sure you set an *Adminstrator Password* in the *Tails Greeter*.

#. Open a terminal (it is an icon on the top of the screen that looks
   like a little black TV).

#. Change into the SecureDrop repo directory ::

     cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop/install_files/ansible-base

#. Open ``prod-specific.yml`` in your preferred text editor.
   Delete the line that starts with ``smtp_relay_fingerprint`` and save the file.
   If you are using your own or your organization's SMTP relay (not Google's),
   you may want want to continue using fingerprint verification.
   If you are unsure, contact us and we will help you make a determination.

#. Stash your updated local changes ::

     git stash save "site specific configs"

#. Pull the latest code ::

     git pull


#. Verify the signed git tag for the latest stable release ::

     git tag -v 0.3.5

#. Checkout the latest release ::

     git checkout 0.3.5

#. Restore your instance-specific settings ::

     git checkout stash -- prod-specific.yml inventory
     git reset

   .. note:: SecureDrop upgrades typically recommend using the simpler
             ``git stash pop`` command to restore instance-specific settings.
             Since 0.3.5 makes changes to the ``prod-specific.yml`` file,
             more verbose git commands are necessary to avoid a merge conflict.

#. Make sure you have Ansible installed. If running ``which ansible`` returns ``ansible not found``, you should ::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install ansible

#. Run the Ansible playbooks (substitute the admin account on the servers for ``<user>``) ::

    ansible-playbook -i inventory -s -u <user> securedrop-prod.yml


During the playbook run, the Postfix TLS verification settings will be updated
on the Monitor Server, the AppArmor profiles will be updated on the Application Server,
and both servers will receive new logic for rebooting after unattended-upgrades.
