Upgrade from 0.3.5 to 0.3.6
============================

SecureDrop 0.3.6 was a maintenance release to update the expiration date on 
the GPG signing key used for the Freedom of the Press apt repository. The 
signing key expired on October 26, 2015, preventing automatic updates from 
Freedom of the Press until the issue is manually resolved.

.. note:: As of SecureDrop 0.3.10, a Debian package `securedrop-keyring`
          is used for managing apt keys on the servers. In the process
          the release signing key was rotated. Check the
          :doc:`../set_up_admin_tails` guide for the most up-to-date
          instructions.

The upgrade steps in this document will upgrade a 0.3.5 SecureDrop to
0.3.6. If you have not yet upgraded to 0.3.5, :doc:`do that first 
<0.3.x-to-0.3.5>`.

Important Changes
-----------------

Update Expired GPG Signing Key (Admin Workstation)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Admin Workstation is used to verify the signed git tag on new
SecureDrop releases. Prior to running the 0.3.6 upgrade, the Admin
Workstation should update the signing key.

Update Expired GPG Signing Key (SecureDrop Servers)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Application Server and Monitor Server will need to have their apt
keyrings updated, which can be accomplished by running the Ansible playbooks.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  An Admin networked Tails workstation with persistence enabled and an
   Admin password set during boot.
   
-  A running SecureDrop instance of 0.3.5.

.. note:: If your SecureDrop instance is not already running 0.3.5,
          :doc:`run that upgrade first <0.3.x-to-0.3.5>`. Failure to do 
          so will result in a merge conflict for your site-specific
          settings, which can be tedious to resolve if you're not
          experienced with git.

Upgrade Procedure
-----------------

The upgrade procedure can be performed entirely from the Admin
Workstation. Start by booting the Admin Tails USB on the Admin 
Workstation. Make sure you set an *Adminstrator Password* in the *Tails 
Greeter*.

#. Open a terminal (it is an icon on the top of the screen that looks
   like a little black TV).

#. Change into the SecureDrop repo directory ::

     cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop

#. Stash your local changes to the inventory and prod-specific.yml ::

     git stash save "site specific configs"

#. Update the Freedom of the Press signing key
   (these commands are from the :doc:`../set_up_admin_tails` guide) ::

    gpg --recv-key "2224 5C81 E3BA EB41 38B3 6061 310F 5612 00F4 AD77"

   .. tip:: The GPG Master Signing Key is also available from the
            `Freedom of the Press website 
            <https://freedom.press/sites/default/files/fpf.asc>`_,
            and the key is signed by the Lead Developer's personal GPG keys, 
            so you can verify that you have the correct key 
            through the GPG Web of Trust (WoT).

#. Pull the latest code ::

     git pull

#. Verify the signed git tag for the latest stable release ::

     git tag -v 0.3.6

#. Checkout the latest release ::

     git checkout 0.3.6

#. Pop the site specific configs back in place ::

     git stash pop

#. Make sure you have Ansible installed. If running ``which ansible`` returns 
   nothing, you should ::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install ansible

#. Change your current working directory to where the files Ansible needs are
stored ::

    cd install_files/ansible-base

#. Run the Ansible playbooks (substitute the admin account on the servers for 
   ``<user>``) ::

    ansible-playbook -i inventory -s -u <user> securedrop-prod.yml

During the playbook run, the GPG signing key will be updated, and all packages
will be upgraded on both servers. The new signing key is valid until October 
2016, at which point another manual update may be necessary.
