Upgrade from 0.4.x to 0.5.x
===========================

.. note::
   First follow the instructions in the 0.3 to 0.4
   :doc:`migration document <0.3.x_to_0.4>`
   if you have not yet updated your **Admin Workstation** to 0.4.

Beginning with SecureDrop 0.5, the source and journalist interfaces
are localized. After an unattended upgrade of the application server,
these translations are available but are not activated by default.

.. note::
   See the :doc:`installation documenation <../install>` for a list
   of supported languages.

The steps below should be performed on the **Admin Workstation**
associated with your SecureDrop instance.

Pull the latest release
-----------------------

Open a **Terminal** and navigate to your SecureDrop directory.

.. code:: sh

   cd ~/Persistent/securedrop

Fetch the latest code, and verify the tag for the latest release (0.5):

.. code:: sh

   git fetch
   git tag -v 0.5

The output of the above commands should include ``Good signature from
"SecureDrop Release Signing Key"``. If it does
not, please contact us immediately at support@freedom.press.

.. note::
  You may also see output from GPG warning you that the key is not certified
  with a trusted signature. This means that there is not a trust path to the
  release signing key. As long as you see the fingerprint ``2224 5C81 E3BA EB41
  38B3 6061 310F 5612 00F4 AD77`` displayed and the signature verifies as
  described above then you can proceed safely.

Once you've verified the latest release, check it out:

.. code:: sh

   git checkout 0.5

Choose the list of supported languages
--------------------------------------

You need to run the ``./securedrop-admin sdconfig`` command again,
following the same instructions as during the :doc:`first installation
<../install>`.  This will not modify the existing configuration but
you will be asked for a list of supported languages because this
option did not exist before.  You should decide which languages you
prefer :doc:`as explained in the installation documenation
<../install>`.

You should then proceed to update the application server with:

.. code:: sh

    ./securedrop-admin install

.. include:: ../includes/rerun-install-is-safe.txt

Verify the source interface displays the selected languages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The source and journalist interfaces will display the current language
with a flag and clicking on the flag will show a menu with all
supported languages.
