Upgrade from 0.9.1 to 0.10.0
============================

Updating the Tails Workstations
-------------------------------

We recommend that you update all Tails drives to version 3.10, which was released
concurrently with SecureDrop 0.9.0 on October 23, 2018. Follow the Tails
graphical prompts on your workstations to perform this upgrade.

Due to a bug in the graphical SecureDrop updater that was fixed in SecureDrop
0.9.1 (released on September 6, 2018), attempting an update of your SecureDrop
workstation code on your *Journalist* or *Admin Workstations* using the
graphical updater will fail with an error message: "WARNING: Signature
verification failed."

If you haven't already updated your workstations
when SecureDrop 0.9.1 was released, you'll need to update your workstations
manually. To do so, follow the instructions in the
:doc:`Upgrade from 0.8.0 to 0.9.1<0.8.0_to_0.9.1>` guide.

Troubleshooting Kernel Issues
-----------------------------

If you have previously downgraded your kernel, as part of the the upgrade
process to SecureDrop 0.10.0, the default Linux kernel will change to the
latest released kernel (version 4.4.144). 

We have tested this kernel extensively against :ref:`recommended hardware <Specific Hardware Recommendations>`
and other common configurations. Please consult our :doc:`kernel troubleshooting guide <../kernel_troubleshooting>`
for instructions on how to compare the differences between kernel versions and
how to roll back to an earlier version if necessary.

.. important::

  The 3.14.x series kernel will be removed with release 0.11.0 (scheduled
  for December 11). Please :ref:`report kernel compatibility issues <Report Compatibility Issues>`
  immediately to avoid extended downtime.

Getting Support
---------------

Should you require further support with your SecureDrop installation or upgrade,
we are happy to help!

-  Community support is available at https://forum.securedrop.org
-  The Freedom of the Press Foundation offers training and priority support
   services. See https://securedrop.org/priority-support/ for more information.
   If you are already a member of our support portal, please don't hesitate to
   open a ticket there.
