Upgrading 0.2.1 version
=======================

Prerequisites
-------------

-  A networked Admin tails workstation configured with the SecureDrop
   repo cloned to the ``Persistent`` directory.

-  Physical/remote access to the app and monitor servers

Upgrade 0.2.1 steps
-------------------

-  Verify the current release number.
-  The upgrade steps in this document will work for each ``0.3.x``
   SecureDrop version.
-  Throughout the rest of this document substitute ``0.3.x`` with the
   current version's minor release number.

-  | Checkout and verify the current release on the Admin Workstation.
   | 
     ``sh   cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/SecureDrop   git pull   git checkout 0.3.x   git tag -v 0.3.x``

-  Copy the 0.2.1 migration script to the app server using scp or
   physical media (usb).

``/home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop/migration_scripts/0.2.1/0.2.1_collect.py``

-  On the app server, run ``0.2.1_collect.py`` as root and provide a
   name for the backup.

``sudo ./0.2.1_collect.py sdbackup``

-  Copy ``sdbackup.tar.gz`` to removable media and transfer it to the
   new instance's app server. If you are re-using the same hardware for
   your 0.3.x installation as you did for 0.2.1, make sure you copy this
   file to a external media before beginning the 0.3.x installation -
   otherwise you will lose your data!

-  Checkout the current release, or if browsing the `FPF github.com
   repo <https://github.com/freedomofpress/securedrop>`__ webpage,
   change the ``branch`` to ``tags/0.3.x``
-  Browsing the website only relies on the security of the CA and SSL to
   prevent MITM attacks. Cloning the repo and verifying the tags'
   signature checks that the code has not been modified since FPF gpg
   signed it.

-  Follow the install guide in ``docs/install.md``

-  Make sure you've created at least one user on the Document Interface
   (with ``./manage.py add_admin``) before continuing.

-  Once you've successfully installed 0.3.x, copy ``sdbackup.tar.gz`` to
   any location on the 0.3.x app server. You will need
   ``0.3_migrate.py``, along with the rest of the files in
   ``migration_scripts/0.2.1``. You can copy the ``0.2.1`` directory to
   the running instance with a flash drive, or ``git clone`` the repo on
   the new app server and ``cd`` into
   ``securedrop/migration_scripts/0.2.1``.

-  Once that's done, run ``0.3_migrate.py`` as root, passing the path to
   the backup from the 0.2.1 machine.

``sudo ./0.3_migrate.py sdbackup.tar.gz``

The script will say "Done!" when it completes successfully. Otherwise,
it will print an error and a Python traceback. If you encounter such an
error, please encrypt the traceback and email it to us at
securedrop@freedom.press.

Finally, test your new installation and make sure that everything was
successfully migrated.
