# Upgrading 0.2.1 version

## Prerequisites

* A networked Admin tails workstation configured with the SecureDrop repo cloned to the `Persistent` directory.

* Physical/remote access to the app and monitor servers

## Upgrade 0.2.1 steps

There is a `0.2.1_collect.py` python script that will backup a SecureDrop version 0.2.1 app server. This script will need to be run on the app server prior to performing a clean install of SecureDrop 0.3.x. The directions below assume that the admin has physical access to the app server.

### On the App server

* Install git

`sudo apt-get install git`

* Clone the SecureDrop repo

`git clone https://github.com/freedomofpress/securedrop`

* Change directory into the securedrop folder

`cd securedrop`

* Checkout and verify the current release

`git checkout 0.3.3`

`git tags -v 0.3.3`

* On the app server run this script as root and provide a file name for the backup.

`sudo ./migration_scripts/0.3/0.2.1_collect.py sdbackup`

* Copy `sdbackup.tar.gz` to removable media and transfer it to the  new instance's app server. If you are re-using the same hardware for  your 0.3 installation as you did for 0.2.1, make sure you copy this file  to a external media before beginning the 0.3 installation - otherwise  you will lose your data!

* Perform a fresh install of the app and monitor servers. https://github.com/freedomofpress/securedrop/blob/develop/docs/install.md

* Once you've successfully installed 0.3, copy `sdbackup.tar.gz` to any location on the 0.3 app server. You will also need 0.3_migrate.py, along with the rest of the files in migration-scripts/0.3. You can copy the 0.3 directory to the running instance with a flash drive, or `git clone` the repo on the new app server and `cd` into `securedrop/migration_scripts/0.2.1`.

* Once that's done, run 0.3_migrate.py as root, passing the path to the backup from the 0.2.1 machine.

`sudo 0.3/0.3_migrate.py sdbackup.tar.gz`

The script will say "Done!" when it completes successfully.  Otherwise, it will print an error and a Python traceback. If you  encounter such an error, please encrypt the traceback and email it to us at securedrop@freedom.press
Finally, test your new installation and make sure that everything was successfully migrated.
