Upgrading 0.3 version
=====================

Prerequisites
-------------

-  An Admin networked Tails workstation with persistence enabled and an
   Admin password set during boot.

-  Double click the "SecureDrop Init" icon to load the Tor authenticated
   hidden service values into your system's torrc file.

-  A filled out prod-specific.yml file
   ``/home/amnesia/Persistent/install_files/ansible-base/prod-specific.yml``

From the admin Tails workstation:
---------------------------------

Open a terminal (it is an icon on the top of the screen that looks like
a little black TV)

-  Change into the SecureDrop repo directory:

``cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop``

-  Stash your local changes to the inventory and prod-specific.yml

``git stash save "site specific configs"``

-  Pull the latest code

``git pull``

-  Checkout the latest tagged release

``git checkout 0.3.3``

-  Verify the github tag

``git tag -v 0.3.3``

-  Pop the site specific configs back in place

``git stash pop``

0.3 upgrade steps
-----------------

Run the 0.3 upgrade helper script. This script will do some basic sanity
checks for your ansible inventory, prod-specific.yml and the system's
torrc file are properly configured and then run the correct ansible
playbooks.

-  Run the upgrade helper script

``./migration_scripts/0.3pre/upgrade.sh``

Notes about the 0.3 upgrade helper script
-----------------------------------------

-  The ``backup`` role will **not** run automatically.
    This is because unintentionally running the ``backup`` role can
    cause large file transfers over Tor, causing substantial problems
   during upgrade.
    If you wish to run a backup manually prior to running the upgrade
   script, use
    these commands:

``sudo apt-get install ansible   cd /home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop/install_files/ansible-base   ansible-playbook -i inventory -u $SSH_USER --sudo securedrop-prod.yml --tags backup``

| Don't forget to replace ``$SSH_USER`` in the command above
|  with the admin username on the app and monitor servers. If you
  encounter connection
|  timeouts during the backup, make sure to remove unnecessary
  submissions
|  from the Document Interface, then run the command again. If you still
  have
|  problems, contact us at securedrop@freedom.press.

-  ``Error: This script must be run as root.``

| Use the 'sudo' command and provide the administrative password you
  created at
|  the beginning of the Tails session. i.e. ``sudo ./upgrade.sh``

-  ``Error: This script must be run on Tails with a persistent volume.``

| In order for this to work, you must be running Tails on the admin
  workstation
|  and have access to a persistent volume. Did you unlock your
  persistent
|  storage at the beginning of the Tails session?

-  ``Error: There is no SSH key file present.``

| When you installed SecureDrop, you generated an SSH key (and probably
  saved
|  to the default location: ``~/.ssh/id_rsa``) for the user 'amnesia'
  and copied
|  it to both the App and Mon server. You should still have access to
  that key
|  through the OpenSSH persistence in Tails. If you got this error,
  check if you
|  lost the key or saved it to a different location. You won't be able
  to login
|  to the servers remotely without it.

-  ``Error: This script must be run with SecureDrop's git repository cloned to 'securedrop' in your Persistent folder.``

| When you first installed SecureDrop, we assume that you cloned our
  GitHub
|  repository to a specific location:
  ``/home/amnesia/Persistent/securedrop``. If
|  it's not there, you either need to move it there or start anew.

-  ``Error: There are no HidServAuth values in your torrc file.``

| Did you run the 'SecureDrop Init' script located in the Persistent
  folder?
|  The init script and the additions it makes to Tor's configuration
  file are
|  needed in order to access the App and Mon servers using SSH over Tor.

-  ``Error: monitor_ip or app_ip in prod-specific.yml is not an IP address.``

| The production playbook in
  ``/install_files/ansible-base/prod-specific.yml``
|  needs to be fully filled out, with the local IP address for each
  server
|  specified.

-  ``Error: ssh_users is not defined in prod-specific.yml.``

| Inside the production playbook you must have ssh\_users defined as the
  user
|  which you use to log in to the App and Mon servers, which was created
  when
|  you installed Ubuntu Server.

-  ``Error: the app or mon ansible_ssh_host in Ansible's inventory file is not an .onion address.``

| Our new provisioner, Ansible, must be run over Tor in order to reach
  the
|  servers. Replace the IP addresses in
  ``/install_files/ansible-base/inventory``
|  with the .onion hostnames for the App and Mon server's Tor hidden
  services
|  for SSH.

-  ``Error: can't connect to the Application or Monitor Server via SSH.``

| Something's wrong and we can't connect. You can re-run the script to
  try
|  again.

-  Is the Vidalia connection indicator green?

-  Did you enter the .onion addresses correctly?

-  Are both servers powered on?

-  Try to SSH to the servers manually - did your client accept the
   server's host key?

-  Did the server accept your client's key?
