Using YubiKey with the Journalist Interface
===========================================

This is a quick and dirty guide to using YubiKey for two-factor
authentication in the Journalist Interface.

Download the YubiKey personalization tool
-----------------------------------------

YubiKeys are modifiable using the YubiKey personalization tool, which is
available for Windows/Mac/Linux and can be downloaded here:
https://www.yubico.com/products/services-software/personalization-tools/use/.
If you wish to use Tails, install the YubiKey personalization tool on
the command line with ``apt-get install yubikey-personalization-gui``.

Once you have downloaded and installed the personalization program,
insert your YubiKey and launch the program. If you are running Tails,
you need to launch the program as the root user.

Set up OATH-HOTP
----------------

When you first launch the program, you will see the heading "Personalize
your YubiKey in:" following by a list of configuration options. The
SecureDrop admin interface uses "OATH-HOTP mode", so click that entry in
the list.

The next window will have the heading "Program in OATH-HOTP mode" and
will offer you a choice between "Quick" or "Advanced" configuration.
Choose "Quick".

First choose the configuration slot for this token. Unless you already
use the YubiKey for something else, you should choose Configuration Slot
1. If you already using the first slot, choose Configuration Slot 2.
Note that you will have to press and hold for several seconds to use the
token from Slot 2 instead of the one in Slot 1. See the `YubiKey
manual <https://www.yubico.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/YubiKey-Manual-v3_1.pdf>`__
for more information.

In the section title "OATH-HOTP parameters", you will need to change the
default settings. First, *uncheck* the checkbox for "OATH Token
Identifier (6 bytes)". Also uncheck the box for "Hide secret". This will
display the data in the "Secret Key (20 bytes hex)" field. This data
cannot be copied unless the "Hide secret" box is unchecked.

|YubiKey OATH-HOTP Configuration|

Now that you have chosen the correct configuration options for use with
SecureDrop, click the "Write Configuration" button. Click through the
warning about overwriting Configuration Slot 1 and choose a location to
save the log file.

When the configuration has been written, you should see
green text saying "YubiKey configured" at the top of the
window.

Set up a user with the OATH-HOTP secret key
-------------------------------------------

Now you will have to set up a new user for the Journalist Interface with
the secret key from the "Secret Key (20 bytes hex)" field.

manage.py
~~~~~~~~~

If you have just installed SecureDrop, you will need to add the first
admin user to the Journalist Interface with ``manage.py``. ``cd`` to the
``SECUREDROP_ROOT``, which is ``/vagrant/securedrop`` in development and
``/var/www/securedrop`` in production. Run ``./manage.py add-admin``.
Fill in the username and password prompts. When it asks "Is this admin
using a YubiKey [HOTP]? (y/N)", type "y", then Enter. At the "Please
configure your YubiKey and enter the secret:" prompt, enter the Secret
Key value and hit Enter. Note that the spaces are optional. When you are
done, you should see a message saying "Admin '(your username)' added".

Admin Interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you already have an admin user configured, use the "Add user" page in
the admin interface to add new users. If they want to use YubiKey for
two-factor, just check the "I'm using a YubiKey [HOTP]" checkbox and
enter the Secret Key in the "HOTP secret" field.

.. |YubiKey OATH-HOTP Configuration| image:: images/yubikey_oath_hotp_configuration.png
